---
title: A Re-run at Blockers & Childhood Triggers
date: 2025-11-24
description: Continued observations on using blockers appropriately
---

EP 2, Sobriety: 0

I recently deliberated over how to use this blog. Initally, I imagined I'd be using it as a place to share condensed tips and tutorials for the lessons I've learned on the journey, but seeing that I'm still learning lots of things on the way still, after so many years, I've decided to use it to share weekly updates on how I'm doing along with insights I've learned. In the future, I suppose as I look back <footnote> in addition to extensive journaling I do in a much more freeflow way (maybe a topic for the future?) </footnote>, I hope this can be a "public diary" of sorts to trace how I've changed and adapted, along with the associated circumstances. For anyone reading this who knows me (if I eventually publicize this), maybe this will give you a glimpse into a part of me I've kept hidden for so long. With that said, this week has been rough, to be honest. I've been at my childhood home for the past couple of weeks visiting my parents. In addition to the usual changes in routine that involve being at home, it's here where my use of porn as a coping mechanism for pain first took root, so the triggers are *really strong* <footnote> As much as we'd like to think we're in control of the present, there are certain habits that remain somewhat below conscious awareness </footnote>. 

In the last post, I mentioned my philosophy around blockers and the ones I'm currently using, though there have been many, *many* others I have tried in the past (e.g., ScreenTime, Jomo, Quittr (scam), regular uBlock Origin with filter lists, Router blockers via xFinity, and I'm sure many others I can't remember right now). At a certain point, all of them sort of blend into one another because there's only so much variety you can really have with blocking software. <footnote> Also, for iPhones at least, all blockers need to get access from ScreenTime to access settings, which can kind of defeat the purpose if the entire functionality of the app can be toggled from Settings. This is why whitelisting certain apps and turning my phone into a dumbphone using Tech Lockdown has been amazingly successful for me! </footnote> The most important attributes by far in a good filter app are **high friction to getting around completely** and **ability to add accountability**. For instance, I love Cold Turkey for the first one, because it's by far the best app I've used for being extremely robust to someone trying to disable it. 

That being said, as I mentioned last week, the thrill is in the chase, so the more blockers I put up, the more creative I got with my tricks to get around them. I'll repeat it again this week: *the solution to porn addiction is not blocking everything obsessively*. Ultimately, this creates illusory control and dependence on outside circumstances rather than the internal. To illustrate this point, take the example of a child learning how to ride a bike. The child probably has training wheels on the bike to add some support, along with her parent watching over, making sure she doesn't fall. Maybe the bike has some other safety mechanisms as well. But over time, what's the goal? Well, hopefully, as the child goes farther and can ride further on her own, her parent can remove training wheels and the other things, until slowly she's able to go around without any supervision.

I was thinking about this, and I think this is really comparable to quitting a compulsive behavior like porn, because both are skills that do not come naturally at all and require dedicated, consistent practice <footnote> obviously lots of differences as well, quitting porn is in my mind far more challenging for other reasons </footnote>. The training wheels and parent are like the blocking software and accountabilty partners/groups providing help, and the actual riding the bike is how well we're able to live without porn to self-soothe. So to go back to the earlier point, if you focus on trying to block everything without actually doing the internal work to handle the pain, that's like adding 20 training wheels to your bike and not actually riding it. It doesn't make any sense honestly, yet it's such an easy trap to fall into, at least for me.

A key revelation for me is that even if certain boundaries can't be enabled, like certain tech blocks that don't work for whatever reason (or if you're out of town/at someone else's house, etc.), that doesn't mean you just give up and say "Oh well. I'm probably going to relapse sometime anyways, so might as well completely submit to the urge whenever". It sounds so silly to write right now, but this was actually my thought process a couple times last week. Just a few holes in my blocking setup made me feel like everything was hopeless <footnote> This addiction is an expert at making you think things are futile, connects deeply to other ideas I'll get to at some point </footnote>. This just can't be true! If one boundary doesn't work, there can be other ones that can be enough for each circumstance. Maybe they're more strict, but just adapting to the surroundings and knowing what you need can be so useful.

That's all for today.