---
title: The Role of Social Media and Tech
date: 2025-11-13
description: Where do triggers and urges come from?
---

Due to lack of time, but in the hopes of making consistent posts, I'm sharing a bit of a shorter post today. In particular, today I want to share some thoughts on triggers and urges in general.

I'd define **triggers** as sites or stimuli that have the effect of generating urges. These usually contain some level of adult content or sensitive material. **Urges**, or **cravings**, manifest from the dopamine-seeking part of our brain to find material that will satisfy the itch until completion, at which point they fade away. An important point here that I've understood over the years is that urges are totally natural (and usually result from some desire for something deeper), even though I used to certainly demonize these in a very unhealthy way.

This is where a key point comes into the picture: social media. By far the most common triggers for me in the past have been through social media. This is also why I separate porn use from watching YouTube or social media in general (at least for myself), because the former is far, *far*, more potent than the latter. The latter usually is usually the starting point for the former, when my mind is searching for the trigger but there is some initial resistance to go off the deep end. Usually, it involves some quick mental gymnastics, effectively aided by the insidious engagement-based design of social media platforms, where my mind says, "Oh. You know it's just this one video, you're not going to go down that path again," all while I know full well what I'm doing. The flow of increasing urges during a session always points one direction: social media to porn (then after PMO, lethargically watching social media watching is standard).

Living like this made high school and college quite difficult, to say the least. Not only did it involve constantly readjusting my time to manage my actual responsibilities (along with constantly letting myself down, maybe a topic for another time), but it also meant lots of lying. What starts out as perhaps innocent sessions of taking a break turn into depraved binge sessions, seamlessly guided by the slippery slide of modern technology. 

This brings me to my final point of this post. Where the urges lead to is almost always the porn sites, but where they start is usually not there, especially once a basic level of adult filters is implemented. So we need to ask ourselves a crucial question: when did porn addiction actually become a widespread problem? If we're arguing it's always been there since the days of magazines, fine. But if it's a recent phenomenon, and the evidence certainly points to this, then we're misplacing the blame. The real culprit isn't really the porn industry itself; it's *Big Tech and the internet's engagement-centric design*.

The initial discovery that one can target natural human behavior with supernormal stimulation from content have allowed websites offering porn to multiply online. While the standard sites from the 'porn industry' have ads similar to what one might find on YouTube or other social media apps, anyone who has gone seeking free porn online in a binge session will have surely encountered the frustration of closing endless ads that pop up when you try to play the video or clear the screen. This is not just some inconvenience - this is how these sites survive. The higher the frequency of the ads, the more powerful the stimulus. The websites **know** that once you're in binge-mode, you will do whatever it takes to close every ad to watch the video since the dopamine response is so high by that point - and they capitalize on this. 

This is not just true of porn, this problem is one of the fundamental problems of the American financial model today. Gambling, social media, shopping addictions, and many more can all be explained by the drive to monetize people's time, energy and attention. Almost every one of these industries existed before tech, in a way that people talked about but never caused widespread problems because there was such high friction. 

Platforms like Reddit, Twitter, YouTube are all complicit here. I've had to block Reddit for stretches at a time because getting past the adult content barriers (i.e., clicking, "Yes, I'm Over 18") is ridiculously easy. Same with Twitter. And with YouTube. If we're serious about creating change, we need to target tech companies that have weaponized human's impulsive nature for profit. Totally normal negative emotions like boredom, loneliness, stress, and pain, which all have normal underlying reasons for existing (signals to the brain that some balance is off), are completely leveraged to numb the user. There's a reason they haven't made it harder to implement age restrictions, because it's in their interest to not do so. The Children Internet Safety Act is signed into law, yet children are easily able to find and access adult content online: there's simply no incentives (or disincentives) for sites to actually align with the law in a meaningful way.

It would be wise to keep that in mind as we move through our recovery when we question whether we really need our social media apps and accounts during this journey.